# MusicAndMentalHealth
Can listening to music improve mental health problems such as Depression, Anxiety, OCD and Insomnia? The data set explores data collected from 750 participants with varied music tastes. 
The purpose of this project was to analyze a data set, where survey participants indicated presence and severity of Depression, Anxiety, OCD, and Insomnia. The participants then listened to music and logged number of hours they listened to music. They ranked the severity of their mental health condition on a scale of 1 to 10, (10 being the most severe). After cleaning the data and performing analytics using Python in Jupyter Notebook, correlations can be found between listening to music and improvementn in condition. More specifically, a certain genre of music appears to be most effective in improving the condition. This type of data analysis can be useful to any healthcare worker or mental health professional who work with populations who suffer from Depression, Anxeity, OCD or Insomnia. Music can be considered a non-medicinal intervention that used to promote wellness. 
This reository contains the dataset in an excel csv file, the Jupyter Notebook where the data cleaning and analysis was performed, power point slides that will be used for presentation, and a one-page summary of the project that talks about the tools that were used, the questions asked of the dataset, insights that were discovered, recommendations if this were being presented to a client, and future work with this data. 
